>> Ifill: THE BATTLE OVER GAY
RIGHTS INTENSIFIED TODAY.
ARIZONA'S GOVERNOR WAS PRESSURED
TO VETO A BILL THAT WOULD ALLOW
BUSINESSES TO REFUSE SERVICE TO
HOMOSEXUALS.
WHILE THE U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL
QUESTIONED THE LEGITIMACY OF
STATES BANNING SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, BATTLE LINES HARDEN
IN VENEZUELA AFTER DAYS OF
PROTEST AND DISCONTENT,
SPREADING THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTRY.
PLUS, THE FIGHT OVER A TRIED AND
TRUE MILITARY AIRCRAFT.
NOW ON THE CHOPPING BLOCK,
THANKS TO BUDGET CUTS.
>> WHAT'S AT STAKE IS THE LIVES
OF A LOT OF TROOPS.
TROOPS IN THE FIELD, WE OWE THEM
THE ABILITY TO PULL THEM OUT OF
TROUBLE.
>> IfillTHOS: E ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: A POLITICAL
FIRESTORM IN ONE STATE, A MAJOR
COURT FIGHT IN ANOTHER AND
STRONG WORDS FROM THE NATION'S
CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
IT ALL SERVED TODAY TO HIGHLIGHT
THE SHIFTING POLITICAL AND LEGAL
LANDSCAPE ON GAY RIGHTS.
>> Woodruff: THE SHIFT WAS
EVIDENT THIS MORNING AS U.S.
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
TOLD HIS STATE COUNTERPARTS THEY
ARE NOT OBLIGED TO DEFEND BANS
ON GAY MARRIAGE.
>> ANY DECISIONS AT ANY LEVEL
NOT TO DEFEND INDIVIDUAL LAWS
MUST BE EXCEEDINGLY RARE.
BUT IN GENERAL, I BELIEVE THAT
WE MUST BE SUSPICIOUS OF LEGAL
CLASSIFICATIONS BASED SOLELY ON
SEXUAL ORIENTATION.
AND WE MUST ENDEAVOR IN ALL OF
OUR EFFORTS TO UPHOLD AND
ADVANCE THE VALUES THAT ONCE LED
OUR FOREBEARS TO DECLARE
UNEQUIVOCALLY THAT ALL ARE
CREATED EQUAL AND ENTITLED TO
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.
>> Woodruff: SO FAR, 17 STATES
AND THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
HAVE LEGALIZED SAME-SEX UNIONS.
AND A TRIAL OPENED IN DETROIT
TODAY ON A CHALLENGE TO
MICHIGAN'S BAN ON GAY MARRIAGE.
MEANWHILE, ARIZONA LAWMAKERS
HAVE TRIGGERED A STORM BY
PASSING SENATE BILL 1062,
ALLOWING BUSINESS OWNERS TO DENY
SERVICE TO GAYS, ON RELIGIOUS
GROUNDS.
FOR INSTANCE, WEDDING
PHOTOGRAPHERS COULD REFUSE TO
WORK AT A SAME-SEX WEDDING IF IT
GOES AGAINST TAITH.
SUPPORTERS INSIST IT'S NOT ABOUT
BEING ANTI-GAY, BUT PRO-
RELIGIOUS FREEDOM.
>> I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF
SPOTLIGHT ON IT BEING AN ISSUE
OF GAY AND CHRISTIAN.
AND THAT'S NOT THE CASE.
IT'S REALLY A CASE OF DEFENDING
ALL PEOPLE.
THIS ISN'T AN ISSUE OF
DISCRIMINATION.
IT'S AN ISSUE OF HAVING PEOPLE'S
VALUES RESPECTED.
>> Woodruff: BUT THE BILL HAS
SPARKED PROTESTS IN PHOENIX AND
ELSEWHERE BY GAY RIGHTS
ADVOCATES WHO SAY IT'S
DISCRIMINATION PURE AND SIMPLE.
BUSINESS GROUPS WARN THE FUROR
IS  TAKING A TOLL ON TOURISM.
BEN BETHEL SAYS HE'S GETTING
CANCELLATIONS AT HIS HOTEL AND
SPA INHOEN PIX.
>> IT'S CAUSING A LOT OF DAMAGE
TO ARIZONA ALREADY.
BECAUSE ANYTHING ARIZONA DOES
THAT IS BAD FOR ARIZONA ONLY
STRENGTHENS OTHER CITIES.
>> Woodruff: AS THE PRESSURE
BUILDS, THREE REPUBLICAN STATE
SENATORS WHO VOTED FOR THE BILL
LAST WEEK, HAVE CHANGED THEIR
MINDS.
ONE OF THEM, BOB WORSLEY, TOLD
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS:
I WAS NOT COMFORTABLE WITH THE
VOTE.
I FEEL VERY BAD, AND IT WAS A
MISTAKE.
HAD E THTHREE REPUBLICANS VOTED
NO LAST WEEK,  THE MEASURE
WOULDN'T HAVE PASSED.
IN TWEETS ARIZONA'S U.S.
SENATORS, JOHN MCCAIN AND JEFF
FLAKE, HAVE CRITICIZED THE VOTE,
AND CALLED FOR GOVERNOR JAN
BREWER TO VETO THE BILL.
SHE HAS UNTIL SATURDAY TO ACT.
IF SHE SIGNS THE BILL, ARIZONA
WOULD BECOME THE FIRST STATE TO
HAVE SUCH A LAW.
>> Woodruff: IN UGANDA TODAY, A
TABLOID NEWSPAPER PRINTED A LIST
OF WHAT IT CALLED THE COUNTRY'S
TOP 200 HOMOSEXUALS.
IT CAME A DAY AFTER THE
PRESIDENT SIGNED A HARSH, ANTI-
GAY LAW.
AT NEWSTANDS AROUND THE CAPITAL
OF KAMPALA PEOPLE STOPPED TO
READ THE STORY AND LOOK AT
PHOTOS OF SOME OF THOSE NAMED.
THE LIST INCLUDED GAY RIGHTS
ACTIVISTS WHO SAID THEY NOW FEAR
FOR THEIR SAFETY.
>> TWO BOYS WALKING TOGETHER, WE
DON'T EVEN KNOW IF THEY WERE A
COUPLE, BUT JUST TWO MEN WALKING
TOGETHER BEING ATTACKED AND ONE
KILLED THIS MORNING IS, MAKES ME
THINK MORE ABOUT MY OWN
SECURITY.
HOW AM I GOING TO BE ABLE TO
KEEP SPEAKING OUT?
>> Woodruff: UGANDA'S PRESIDENT
HAS REJECTED INTERNATIONAL
CONDEMNATION OF THE NEW LAW, AND
ACCUSED THE WEST OF PROMOTING
HOMOSEXUALITY IN AFRICA.
>> Woodruff: IN NIGERIA,
ISLAMIST EXTREMISTS STAGED A
BLOODY NEW ASSAULT TODAY,
MURDERING AT LEAST 58 STUDENTS
AT A GOVERNMENT SCHOOL.
THE MILITANTS SET A LOCKED
DORMITORY ABLAZE, SHOOTING AND
STABBING ALL WHO TRIED TO
ESCAPE.
OTHERS WERE BURNED ALIVE.
WE'LL TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT ETH
WORSENING SITUATION IN NIGERIA
LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
>> Woodruff: LAWMAKERS IN
UKRAINE HAVE PUT OFF FORMING A
NEW GOVERNMENT UNTIL THURSDAY,
AMID ONGOING POLITICAL TENSIONS.
THEY ALSO VOTED TODAY TO SEND
OUSTED PRESIDENT VIKTOR
YANUKOVYCH TO THE INTERNATIONAL
CRIMINAL COURT, IF HE'S EVER
CAUGHT.
MEANWHILE, HIS TEMPORARY
SUCCESSOR VOICED CONCERNS ABOUT
SIGNS OF SEPARATISM IN THE
MAINLY-RUSSIAN SPEAKING REPUBLIC
OF CRIMEA.
JAMES MATES OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS IS IN CRIMEA
WITH THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: IF UKRAINE'S NEW
LEADERS ARE WORRIED ABOUT THEIR
COUNTRY SPLITTING IN TWO NOWHERE
IS THAT DANGER GREATER THAN IN
ITS SOUTHERNMOST TERRITORY, THE
CRIMEA.
THE FLAGS YOU SEE AT
DEMONSTRATIONS HERE ARE RUSSIAN.
THE DEMANDS, STOP MAIDAN.
STOP WHAT IS HAPPENING IN KIEV.
"RUSSIA, RUSSIA" THEY SHOUT ANDG
WHAT THEY CALL THE MOTHERLAND.
>> CRIMEA AND RUSSIA IS ONE,
IT'S ONE NATION.
>> Reporter: ARE YOU RUSSIAN OR
UKRAINIAN?
>> MY PASSPORT IS UKRAINIAN BUT
I AM RUSSIAN
IT IS IN THIS ATMOSPHERE THAT
THE NEW ACTING PRESIDENT OF
UKRAINE TOLD PARLIAMENT TODAY HE
WAS HEADING TO A SECURITY
COUNCIL MEETING TO ADDRESS THE
POTENTIAL SPLINTERING OF HIS
COUNTRY.
THE CRIMEAN CITY OF SEVASTAPOOL
WILL HAVE BEEN TOP OF HIS LIST
OF CONCERNS.
THIS MAN IS THE NEW MAYOR HERE.
NOT ELECTED BUT IMPOSED BY A
CROWD OF 15,000 TWO DAYS AGO.
HIS SUPPORTERS NOW GATHER HERE
EVERY DAY, THEIR MESSAGE IF KIEV
CAN OVERTHROW A PRESIDENT WE CAN
OVERTHROW A MAN.
IN THIS TOWN THERE IS NO
QUESTION OF RUSSIA MOVING IN.
THE RUSSIANS ARE ALREADY HERE.
THEIR BLACK SEA FLEET IS BASED
IN SEVASTAPOOL.
IT IS WIDELY BELIEVED THAT
DEPOSED PRESIDENT YANUKOVYCH IS
HIDING SOMEWHERE IN THIS SPACE
RIGHT NOW.
THERE IS NO CLEAR INDICATION OF
JUST HOW WELL ESTABLISHED THE
RUSSIANS ARE IN CRIMEA THAN THIS
THE HEADQUARTERS AND COMMAND OF
THE RUSSIAN BLACK SEA FLEET,
RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE OF
SEVASTAPOOL.
RUSSIAN OFFICERS AND MEN COMING
AND GOING AS IF IT WAS THEIR OWN
TERRITORY.
NEITHER THEY NOR THE OCCIONAASL
ARMORED VEHICLE ARE THE MAKING
OF A RUSSIAN TAKEOVER AND MOSCOW
INSISTED TODAY IT WON'T
INTERFERE.
BUT THE SKYLINE HERE IS
DOMINATED BY LENIN AND THE DOME
OF A RUSSIAN ORTHODOX CATHEDRAL.
ITS LOYALTIES ARE NOT TO UKRAINE
AND THE LEADERS IN KIEV KNOW IT.
>> Woodruff: RUSSIA CONQUERED
CRIMEA IN THE 18TH CENTURY, BUT
IN 1954, SOVIET LEADER NIKITA
KHRUSHCHEV TRANSFERRED THE
REGION TO UKRAINE.
SINCE THE SOVIET BREAKUP IN
1991, CRIMEA HAS BEEN PART OF AN
INDEPENDENT UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff: THE PRIME MINISTER
OF TURKEY IS ACCUSING HIS
POLITICAL RIVALS OF LAUNCHING A
QUOTE, "TREACHEROUS ATTACK" ON
HIM, AS HE BECOMES THE CENTER OF
A CORRUPTION SCANDAL.
AUDIO RECORDINGS RELEASED
OVERNIGHT APPEARED TO SHOW RECEP
TAYYIP ERDOGAN  TELLING HIS SON
TO GET RID OF LARGE SUMS OF CASH
BEFORE POLICE RAIDS.
TODAY, ERDOGAN TOLD PARLIAMENT
THE RECORDINGS ARE FABRICATED:
>> ( translated ): THERE AREN'T
ANY ALLEGATIONS THAT I CANNOT
ANSWER.
BUT NEITHER MEMBERS OF AK PARTY
NOR I WILL BE LURED BY THEIR
TRAPS TO CHANGE THE AGENDA AND
WE WILL NOT SURRENDER TO THIS
GAME.
IF WE SURRENDER TO THEM AND DEAL
WITH THEIR SHAMELESS MONTAGE AND
SHAMELESS TRAPS, WE CANNOT FIND
TIME TO SERVE OUR PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: OPPOSITION PARTIES
INSISTED THE RECORDINGS ARE
GENUINE, AND THEY DEMANDED
ERDOGAN RESIGN.
A THICK VEIL OF SMOG BLANKETED
CHINA'S CAPITAL FOR A SIXTH
STRAIGHT DAY.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
CALLED IT A CRISIS,  AS PEOPLE
WORE MASKS TO TRY TO KEEP FROM
BREATHING IN THE POLLUTED AIR.
CHINESE PRESIDENT XI JINPING
BRAVED THE SMOG, AS SEEN IN THIS
MOBILE PHONE VIDEO.
HE TOOK A RARE, UNANNOUNCED WALK
IN A BEI A
RESIDENTS.
JAPAN MAY RE-START SOME OF THE
NUCLEAR REACTORS THAT WERE SHUT
DOWN AFTER THE FUKUSHIMA
DISASTER, ALMOST THREE YEARS
AGO.
A DRAFT ENERGY POLICY, PRESENTED
TO THE CABINET, MADE THAT
RECOMMENDATION TODAY.
THE REACTORS WOULD HAVE TO MEET
NEW STANDARDS SET AFTER A
TSUNAMI SEVERELY DAMAGED THE
FUKUSHIMA PLANT IN MARCH OF
2011.
ALL OF JAPAN'S 48 COMMERCIAL
REACTORS HAVE BEEN OFF-LINE
SINCE THEN.
ONE OF THE WORLD'S TOP EXCHANGES
FOR THE DIGITAL CURRENCY BITCOIN
HAS GONE OFF-LINE AMID REPORTS
OF CATASTROPHIC LOSSES.
THE WEBSITE FOR
M.T. GOX WAS BLANK TODAY, AND
LEAKED DOCUMENTS SHOWED
LOSSES ROUGHLY EQUAL TO $350
MILLION.
BITCOIN TRADER KOLIN BURGESS, OF
BRITAIN, PROTESTED OUTSIDE THE
EXCHANGE'S HEADQUARTERS IN
TOKYO.
>> I AM BOTH ANNOYED AND
WORRIED.
IT SEEMS THAT I HAVE LOST ALL OF
MY MONEY AND I'M ANNOYED THAT
THE COMPANY HAS BEEN STRINGING
PEOPLE ALONG FOR SO LONG,
CLAIMING EVERYTHING HAS BEEN
OKAY.
LUCKILY, MOST PEOPLE DIDN'T
BELIEVE THEM.
>> Woodrf: LufEADING PROPONENTS
OF BITCOIN ARGUED THE COLLAPSE
OF M.T. GOX IS AN ISOLATED CASE
OF MISMANAGEMENT.
COMBAT JOBS WILL SOON OPEN TO
WOMEN IN THE U.S. ARMY, BUT ONLY
A FEW SAY THEY WANT THOSE
POSITIONS.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTS
THAT FINDING COMES FROM AN ARMY
SURVEY OF SOME
30,000 WOMEN IN THE RANKS.
ONLY 7.5% RESPONDED THEY WANT A
COMBAT JOB.
THE MILITARY FACES A JANUARY
2016 DEADLINE TO OPEN INFANTRY,
ARMOR, ARTILLERY AND COMBAT
ENGINEER SLOTS TO WOMEN.
THERE WAS HOPEFUL NEWS TODAY ON
CHILDHOOD OBESITY IN THE U.S.,
FROM THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE
CONTROL AND PREVENTION.
IT REPORTED THE PROBLEM AMONG
PRE-SCHOOLERS HAS FALLEN MORE
THAN 40% IN THE PAST DECADE.
HEALTH OFFICIALS REGARD OBESITY
AS A NATIONAL EPIDEMIC.
YOUNG CHILDREN WHO ARE
SUBSTANTIALLY OVERWEIGHT ARE
FIVE TIMES MORE LIKELY TO BE
HEAVY AS ADULTS.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, HOME PRICES
FELL IN DECEMBER, FOR THE SECON.
THE DIP IN THE STANDARAND-D-
POOR'S CASE-SHILLER INDEX
PARTLY REFLECTS THE EFFECTS OF
WINTER STORMS.
AND ON WALL STREET TODAY,THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST 27
POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,179.
THE NASDAQ FELL FIVE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4287.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 WAS DOWN TWO
POINTS TO FINISH AT 1,845.
STILL TO COME ON THE "NEWSHOUR:
POLITICAL TURMOIL IN VENEZUELA;
A FIGHT OVER GROUNDING A
BATTLE-TESTED U.S. WAR PLANE;
ISLAMIST MILITANTS GO ON A
KILLING SPREE IN NIGERIA; PLUS,
A BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO GET
UNDOCUMENTED YOUTH A COLLEGE
EDUCATION.
>> Ifill: NOW, TO THE ESCALATING
TENSIONS IN THE KEY OIL STATE OF
VENEZUELA.
STREET PROTESTS AGAINST THE
SOCIALIST GOVERNMENT SHOW NO
SIGN OF ENDING, AND ALREADY-
FRAYED RELATIONS BETWEEN
WASHINGTON AND CARACAS ARE
GROWING EVEN MORE STRAINED.
>> IfillTHE : LATEST DIPLOMATIC
JAB CAME TODAY FROM STATE
DEPARTMENT SPOKESWOMAN JEN
PSAKI.
>> IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE
NINE OF THE VIENNA CONVENTION ON
DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT HAS DECLARED THREE
OFFICIALS FROM THE VENEZUELAN
EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON, D.C.,
PERSONA NON-GRATAE.
>> Ifill: THAT WAS THE U.S.
RESPONSE TO VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT
NICOLAS MADURO'S DECISION TO
EXPEL THREE AMERICAN DIPLOMATS
LAST WEEK.
HE ACCUSED THE U.S. OF
CONSPIRING WITH THE VENEZUELAN
OPPOSITION TO OVERTHROW HIM.
ON THE STREETS, THOUGH, IT'S
GONE FAR BEYOND A WAR OF WORDS.
PROTESTERS HAVE BARRICADED MAJOR
STREETS IN CARACAS AND OTHER
CITIES.
AND YESTERDAY, ONE PERSON WAS
KILLED IN A CLASH WITH POLICE,
RAISING THE TOLL TO 15 DEAD AND
150 WOUNDED IN THE LAST TWO
WEEKS.
AT THE SAME TIME, THOUSANDS OF
GOVERNMENT SUPPORTERS MOUNTED
MOTORCYCLES IN THE CAPITAL IN A
SHOW OF SOLIDARITY WITH MADURO.
THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF HAS SENT
MIXED MESSAGES TO WASHINGTON,
LASHING OUT LAST WEEK, YET
OFFERING AN OLIVE BRANCH THIS
WEEK.
>> ( translated ): I HAVE
DECIDED TO NAME AN AMBASSADOR TO
THE UNITED STATES TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENS.
I WANT TO HAVE A DIALOGUE WITH
THE UNITED STATES BECAUSE I WANT
PEACE, RESPECT, A RELATIONSHIP
AS EQUALS WITH THE UNITED STATES
AND I INVITE THE OPPOSITION TO
ACCOMPANY ME IN THAT.
>> Ifill: CONSPICUOUSLY ABSENT
FROM THE LEADERSHIP MEETING IN
CARACAS WAS VENEZUELA'S MOST
PROMINENT OPPOSITION LEADER,
TWO-TIME PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
GOVERNOR ENRIQUE CAPRILES.
>> ( translated ): I AM NOT
GOING TO A MEETING WITH THE
FEDERAL COUNCIL TO HELP HIM SAVE
FACE.
I'M NOT GOING TO BE LIKE THE
ORCHESTRA ON THE TITANIC.
I AM NOT THE MUSICIAN, THE BOAT
IS SINKING, AND I AM THE ONE WHO
IS PLAYING THE MUSIC?
NO SIR, NICOLAS, YOU ARE NOT
GOING TO USE ME.
>> Ifill: ANOTHER PROMINENT
OPPOSITION LEADER, LEOPOLDO
LOPEZ, REMAINS JAILED, AFTER
SURRENDERING TO FACE CHARGES OF
INSTIGATING VIOLENCE.
FROM PRISON HE PASSED HIS WIFE
THIS HAND-WRITTEN LETTER, WHICH
WAS CIRCULATED ON TWITTER.
IN IT, LOPEZ TOLD HIS
SUPPORTERS:
"I'M FINE.
I ASK YOU NOT TO GIVE UP, I
WON'T."
MEANWHILE, MADURO HAS CALLED FOR
ANOTHER NATIONAL SUMMIT
TOMORROW.
>> Ifill: TO GET A CLOSER READ
ON WHAT'S HAPPENING ON THE
GROUND, I SPOKE TO GIRISH GUPTA,
VENEZUELA CORRESPONDENT FOR THE
REUTERS NEWS AGENCY, A SHORT
TIME AGO.
GIRISH, THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US.
WHY ARE WE GETTING SUCH MIXED
MESSAGES FROM NICOLAS MADURO
ABOUT HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
U.S.
>> WHEN TIMES GET TOUGH IT'S NOT
NEW MEMBER IN 206 WHEN CESAR
CHAVEZ TOOK THE STAND CALLI
BUSH THE DEVIL A COUPLE FROM
THAT STORY AND IN SEPTEMBER
AGAIN -- DIPLOMATS FROM THE U.S.
WHEN WE LOOK AT RELATIONSHIP
THAT THE U.S. HAS WITH
VENEZUELA, IT'S BETTER TO LOOK
AT THE OIL AND THE MONEY THAT'S
TRADING HANDS AS OPPOSED TO
NECESSARILY THE POLITICS.
THE U.S. REMAINS ONE OF THE
BIGGEST PART OF VENSIAN OIL IT'S
THE BIGGEST POWER TO THE UNITED
STATES AND THAT REALLY SAYS IT
ALL.
>> Ifill:  LET'S TALK ABOUT
WHAT'S HAPPENING INTERNALLY.
WHO ARE THE PROTESTERS ON THE
STREETS FIRST OF ALL.
>> WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS THIS
PROTEST IS MUCH MORE ORGANIC
THAN WHAT WE'VE NECESSARILY SEEN
BEFORE.
I ASKED THEM WHO DO YOU SUPPORT,
DO YOU SUPPORT THE OFFICIAL
LEADER OR LOPEZ THE MORE RADICAL
OFFICIAL LEADER WHO IS NOW IN
JAIL AS YOU MIGHT KNOW.
SOME OF THEM DON'T CARE.
THEY DON'T CARE ABOUT THE
OPPOSITION LEADERSHIP.
THEY JUST WANT A CHANGE, THEY
WANT AN END TO THE PROBLEMS THIS
COUNTRY PLACES.
THE INFLATION, 6.3% INFLATION
OVER LAST YEAR.
THEY ARE CRYING EVERY SINGLE DAY
IN THIS COUNTRY THAT'S TWO
AND-A-HALF TIMES MORE THAN LAST
YEAR WITH THE SAME POPULATION.
THE PRESIDENT SAYS NOW
EVERYONE'S JUMPING IN ON THIS.
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE,
BUSINESS LEADERS WHO ARE NOT
HAPPY WITH THE STATUS QUO.
>> Ifill:  ARE THEY BEGINNING
TO TIE OUT OR ARE THEY PRETTY
MUCH -- DIE OUT OR ARE THEY
PRETTY MUCH CONTINUING EVERY
DAY.
>> THEY DO SEEM TO BE
CONTINUING.
THAT SURPRISED MYSELF AND MOST
PEOPLE HERE ARE EXPECTING THINGS
TO DIE DOWN.
EVERY MORNING WE SEE BARRICADES
ALL OVER CARACAS WITH THEM ON
FIRE IN THE STREETS AND BLOCKING
THE ROADS.
THIS SEEMS TO BE CONTINUING.
I ASKED PEOPLE WHY AND HOW LONG
IT CAN GO ON FOR.
THEY SAID KEEP GOING, WHY NOT.
THEY'VE GOT NOTHING TO LOSE THEY
SAY.
IF THAT'S TRUE, MOST DON'T KNOW
BECAUSE THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
NEED TO WORK AND KEEP EARNING
MONEY AND GO TO SCHOOL.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO SEE.
IT'S SURPRISING HOW LONG IT'S
LASTED AND JUST HOW WIDE IT IS
HERE.
>> Ifill:  LET'S TALK ABOUT
WHAT'S HAPPENING INTERNALLY.
WHO ARE THE PROTESTERS ON THE
STREETS, FIRST AVENUE ALL.
>> SO WHAT WE'RE SEEING RIGHT
NOW IS HUGE PROTESTS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
IN CARACAS I'VE SEEN EVERY NIGHT
FOR THE LAST COUPLE WEEK WE'VE
SEEN PETRO BOMBS AND TEAR GAS
AND OCCASIONALLY RUBBER BULLETS.
THIS IS GOING ON EVERY NIGHT IN
CARACAS.
IT'S MAINLY A WEALTHY AREA OF
TOWN.
THEY'RE GETTING THIS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
THAT'S MORE IMPORTANT, MORE
ORGANIC PART OF THIS PROCESS.
IT ALL BEGAN IN A WESTERN STATE
NON-FOR BEING QUITE FEISTY FOR
LACK OF A BETTER WORD.
NOW THAT'S CONTINUING EVEN MORE.
THERE'S MORE VIOLENCE AND MORE
PASSION THAN IN CARACAS.
WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS THIS
PROTEST IS MUCH MORE ORGANIC
THAN WE'VE NECESSARILY SEEN
BEFORE.
PROTESTERS, AND THEY TELL ME, I
ASKED THEM WHO DO YOU SUPPORT,
DO YOU SUPPORT THE OFFICIAL
LEADER OR LEOPOLDO LOPEZ WHO IS
NOW IN JAIL.
SOME OF THEM DON'T CARE.
THEY DON'T CARE ABOUT THE
OPPOSITION LEADERSHIP, THEY JUST
WANT A CHANGE.
THEY WANT A NAME TO THE PROBLEM
THIS COUNTRY FACES.
6.3% YEAR.
THEY'RE CRYING, THERE ARE DEATHS
IN THIS COUNTRY EVERY SINGLE
DAY.
IT'S THE SAME POPULATION THEY'RE
NOT SURE IF THEY WANT THEIR OWN,
THEY'RE NOT SURE, THEY WANT TO
CHANGE.
>> Ifill:  IS MADURO HIMSELF
ALLIED WITH CHAVEZ, AT THE NOW
IN DANGER BECAUSE OF THESE
PROTESTS OR IS HE STILL ON --
>> THAT'S A BIG QUESTION.
NOW, THE PROTESTERS, LIKE I SAID
THEY DON'T NECESSARILY HAVE A
LEADERSHIP BUT THEY DO WANT TO
GET RID OF MADURO BECAUSE THEY
KNOW HE'S NOT GOING TO CHANGE
HIS POLICY NECESSARILY.
IS MADURO IN DANGER?
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO SAY.
NOW HE'S NOT HUGO CHAVEZ.
YOU GOT TO REMEMBER THAT HUGO
CHAVEZ -- HOLDS THING TOGETHER
AND HAD CHARISMA WHICH MADURO
DOESN'T HAVE.
THAT'S WHY SOMETIMES HE'S MAKING
MORE RADICAL MOVES AND USING
RADICAL RHETORIC.
THERE ARE TWO WAYS THIS CAN GO.
IT CAN EITHER GET MORE EXTREME
AND THE PROTESTS CAN CONTINUE OR
IT COULD BE SOME BETWEEN MADURO
AND CAPRILES.
IT GOT PUT ON THE BACK BURNER
BECAUSE THE LANGUAGE THEY'VE
BEEN USING TOWARDS EACH OTHER.
MADURO CALLED THE PROTESTERS
FASCIST NAZIS.
CAPRILES SAYS THE WORLD SEES
MADURO AS COMMITTING GENOCIDE.
THAT'S VERY STRONG LANGUAGE AND
I CAN'T SEE THEM SITTING AT A
TABLE TO DISCUSS.
>> Ifill:  THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Ifill: AS DEFENSE SECRETARY
CHUCK HAGEL ANNOUNCED YESTERDAY,
THE PENTAGON IS GRAPPLING WITH
WHAT TO KEEP AND WHAT TO CUT  IN
A TIME OF TIGHT BUDGETS AND
NATIONAL SECURITY CHALLENGES.
AT THE AIR FORCE, LEADERS HAVE
SET THEIR SIGHTS ON GROUNDING A
PLANE THAT'S BEEN A RELIABLE
STANDBY FOR DECADES.
BUT IT'S DEFENDERS WON'T GIVE UP
WITHOUT A FIGHT.
DEFENSE PRODUCER DAN SAGALYN,
HAS BEEN TRACKING THE DEBATE.
KWAME HOLMAN NARRATES THIS
REPORT.
>> Reporter: A TYPICAL DAY AT
MARTIN STATE AIRPORT ON
MARYLAND'S EASTERN SHORE
INCLUDES CHEMICAL WEAPONS
TRAINING WITH THE A-10 WARTHOG.
THE NATIONAL GUARD BASE IS ONE
OF THE HOMES OF AN AIRCRAFT
BELOVED BY GROUND FORCES WHO SEE
IT AS THEIR GUARDIAN IN THE SKY.
ITS PILOTS VIEW INFANTRY ON THE
GROUND AS THEIR PRIMARY
CUSTOMER, AND RESPONSIBILITY.
MOST COMBAT AIRCRAFT SHOOT DOWN
OTHER PLANES OR DROP BOMBS OR
BOTH.
BUT THE WARTHOG WAS DESIGNED
SPECIFICALLY TO COME IN LOW AND
ATTACK ENEMY FORCES IN A MISSION
CALLED CLOSE AIR SUPPORT.
>> NORTH OR SOUTH, WEST OF THE
SMOKE, WEST OF THE SMOKE.
OKAY COPY, WEST OF THE SMOKE I'M
LOOKING AT DANGER CLOSE NOW.
>> Reporter: OFTEN TIMES THE
ENEMY IS WITHIN YARDS OF
FRIENDLY FORCES.
THISIDEO V CAPTURES THE EXCHANGE
BETWEEN A WARTHOG PILOT AND A
GROUND CONTROLLER CALLING IN A
STRIKE ON TALIBAN FORCES IN 2006
IN SOUTHERN AFGHANISTAN.
>> ROGER, KEEP YOUR FIRE WEST OF
THE SMOKE.
OKAY COPY THAT.
>> Reporter: MAJOR CHRIS
CISNEROS TRAINS WARTHOG PILOTS
IN THE AIR FORCE'S HUNDRED AND
FOURTH FIGHTER SQUADRON.
>> CLOSE AIR SUPPORT IS KIND OF
A PICK-UP GAME IF YOU WILL, IF A
FRIENDLY CONVOY IS OUT, A
PARTICULAR MISSION, AND THEY
COME UNDER FIRE UNEXPECTEDLY,
AND SOMETIMES THE ENEMY IS
WITHIN 100 METERS OR EVEN CLOSER
THAN THAT.
>> Reporter: THE AIR FORCE HAS
ABOUT 350 WARTHOGS.
FLYING BELOW CLOUD COVER, ITS
PILOTS CAN SEE WITH THEIR OWN
EYES WHAT THEY'RE ATTACKING.
IT CAN LOITER OVER THE
BATTLEFIELD, THE COCKPIT
PROTECTED BY A TITANIUM SHELL
AND BULLET PROOF GLASS MAKING IT
SURVIVABLE EVEN WHEN HIT BY
SMALL ARMSIRE. F
IT'S MOST LETHAL WEAPON IS A 30-
MILLIMETER GATTLING GUN THAT
FIRES ALMOST 4,000 ROUNDS PER
MINUTE.
BUT TOP PENTAGON OFFICIALS NOW
SAY THE WARTHOG'S DAYS ARE OVER.
THEY WANT TO ELIMINATE THE
ENTIRE FLEET AND SAVE THREE AND
A HALF BILLION DOLLARS OVER FIVE
YEARS.
DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL
TOLD REPORTERS YESTERDAY THAT
MONEY COULD BE BETTER SPENT ON
NEWER, MORE CAPABLE AND
SURVIVABLE AIRCRAFT.
>> THE A-10 IS A 40-YEAR-OLD
SINGLE-PURPOSE AIRPLANE
ORIGINALLY DESIGNED TO KILL
ENEMY TANKS ON A COLD WAR
BATTLEFIELD.
IT CANNOT SURVIVE OR OPERATE
EFFECTIVELY WHERE THERE ARE MORE
ADVANCED AIRCRAFT OR AIR
DEFENSES.
>> Reporter: RETIRED GENERAL
NORTON SCHWARTZ AGREES WITH THE
DEFENSE SECRETARY.
HE CLOSED DOWN SOME WARTHOG
UNITS WHEN HE WAS AIR FORCE
CHIEF OF STAFF FROM 2008 TO
2012.
HE ACKNOWLEDGES THE A-10 IS
BELOVED BUT SAYS THE AIR FORCE
HAS OTHER PLANES THAT CAN
PROTECT TROOPS ON THE GROUND
JUST AS WELL, THE INOSCLUDE THE
F-16, F-15E, THE B-1 BOMBER AND
AC-130.
AND SCHWARTZ SAYS THE U.S.
MILITARY'S NEWEST WAR PLANE, THE
MULTI-MISSION AND LONG-DELAYED
F-35 JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER ALSO
CAN HANDLE CLOSE AIR SUPPORT.
THE F-35 IS DESIGNED TO REPLACE
MOST OF THE U.S. STRIKE AIRCRAFT
FLEET.
>> WHAT YOU WANT TO DO IS TO
HAVE PLATFORMS THAT CAN PERFORM
THE MISSION, THAT MISSION AND AS
MANY OTHER AS MIGHT BE REQUIRED
IN THE FUTURE.
BUT SERVICE PERSONNEL UP AND
DOWN THE RANKS TOLD THE NEWSHOUR
THE A-10 IS UNIQUE.
>> I'VE SORT OF FOUND A SOUL
MATE, SO TO SPEAK, IN THE A10.
>> Reporter: MARINE CORPS MAJOR
DANIEL O'HARA WHO LED A PLATOON
IN AFGHANISTAN SAYS THE WARTHOG
SCARED THE TALIBAN.
>> THE PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECT IT
HAS ON THE ENEMY I THINK IS
PRETTY CLEAR, AND I ALSO THINK
IT HAS AN EQUALLY POSITIVE
PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECT ON FRIENDLY
FORCES.
YOU SEE THAT AIRCRAFT COME ON
STATION, YOU KNOW WHAT IT'S
CAPABLE OF, YOU KNOW THAT THE
ENEMY ON THE OTHER SIDE PROBABLY
DOESN'T WANT TO MESS WITH YOU
WHILE THAT'S IN THE AIR.
>> WE ARE OUTRAGED AT THE AIR
FORCES LATEST ATTEMPT TO KILL
THE A-10.
>> Reporter: PIERRE SPREY HELPED
DESIGN THE WARTHOG IN THE LATE
1960S AND '70S.
HE SAYS IT WAS BUILT  TO DO MORE
THAN DESTROY SOVIET TANKS AND
THAT IT'S UNIQUELY TOUGH
AIRFRAME MADE IT MORE SURVIVABLE
AND CAPABLE THAN ALTERNATIVE
AIRCRAFT.
HE SAYS THOSE NEWER PLANES COST
MUCH MORE TO FLY.
HE AND OTHER A-1O SUPPORTERS
MOBILIZED TO SAVE THE PLANE AT A
RECENT CONFERENCE IN WASHINGTON
D.C.
>> YOU ARE GOING TO BUY
EXTREMELY EXPENSIVE AIRCRAFT
THAT CAUSE YOU A MUCH WORSE
FINANCIAL PROBLEM AND YOU ARE
CANNING THE CHEAPEST AIRPLANE
YOU OPERATE, AND SAVING A
TRIVIAL AMOUNT OF MONEY.
>> Reporter: GENERAL SCHWARTZ
SAYS IMPROVEMENTS IN COCKPIT
CAMERAS, RADARS, ELECTRONICS AND
PRECISION MUNITIONS MEAN THE
PLANES THAT WOULD REPLACE THE A-
10 ARE MUCH BETTER AT PROTECTING
GROUND FORCES  EVEN FROM FAR
ABOVE.
>> INCREASINGLY THE TECHNOLOGY
HAS ALLOWED US TO ENJOY THE SAME
PROTECTIONS FOR FRIENDLIES
THROUGH OTHER MEANS.
>> Reporter: BUT A-10 ADVOCATES
SAY TECHNOLOGY HAS LIMITS.
>> TECHNOLOGY IS GOOD BUT THE
PROBLEM WITH USING THAT
TECHNOLOGY, ESPECIALLY THE
OPTICAL STUFF, IS THAT IT'S LIKE
LOOKING THROUGH A SODA STRAW.
SO IMAGINE YOU HOLD A STRAW UP
TO YOUR EYE, AND THAT'S HOW YOU
HAVE TO VIEW THE WHOLE
BATTLEFIELD.
>> Reporter: RETIRED LT. COL.
BILL SMITH FLEW WARTHOGS OVER AN
18 YEAR CAREER INCLUDING COMBAT
MISSIONS IN AFGHANISTAN.
HE ALSO PARTICIPATED IN THE SAVE
THE A-10 EVENT.
>> WITH LOOKING WITH YOUR
EYEBALLS, I CAN TURN MY HEAD
AROUND AND I CAN SEE MUCH MORE
OF THE BATTLEFIELD THAN I CAN
WITH SLEWING THAT POD AROUND.
AND I CAN SEE THE BIGGER
PICTURE.
I'M ABLE TO MAYBE CATCH SOME
MOVEMENT OUT OF THE CORNER OF MY
EYE AND LOOK DOWN AND GO OH,
THERE'S A LITTLE BIT OF DUST
OVER THERE.
>> Reporter: A-10 ADVOCATES ARE
GETTING SUPPORT ON CAPITOL HILL.
SENATOR KELLY AYOTTE, A NEW
HAMPSHIRE REPUBLICAN WANTS TO
HOLD OFF ON DUMPING THE A-10
UNTIL THE NEW JOINT STRIKE
FIGHTER PROVES IT CAN DO CLOSE
AIR SUPPORT.
AYOTTE, WHOSE HUSBAND IS A
FORMER A-10 PILOT, SAYS THE AIR
FORCE SHOULD FIND OTHER PLACES
TO SAVE MONEY.
>> THE AIR FORCE SPENT A BILLION
DOLLARS ON AN I.T. SYSTEM, THAT
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO GET
ANYTHING OUT OF AND THEY JUST
CANCELLED IN 2012, SO I THINK WE
SHOULD TAKE A STEP BACK FOR A
MINUTE AND MAKE SURE THAT THERE
AREN'T ANY MORE OF THOSE BILLION
DOLLAR SYSTEMS OUT THERE.
>> Reporter: BUT GENERAL
SCHWARTZ SAYS THE DAYS OF SUCH
WASTEFUL SPENDING BY THE
PENTAGON ARE OVER AND THAT
TODAY'S SHRINKING MILITARY
BUDGETS MEAN PROGRAMS LIKE THE
A-10 ARE A LUXURY.
>> THE DILEMMA IS WHAT ELSE IN
THE AIR FORCE DO WE STOP DOING
IN ORDER TO KEEP THE A-10?
SO WHAT CHILDCARE CENTER DO WE
NOT KEEP OPEN?
WHAT BASE DO WE COMPROMISE
SECURITY?
>> Reporter: PIERRE SPREY SAYS
THE AIR FORCE HAS MOUNTED A
CAMPAIGN TO RETIRE THE A-10 BY
MAKING POLITICAL AND SPENDING
DEALS ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
>> THEY HAVE REACHED OUT TO
STATE GOVERNORS, STATE ADJUTANT
GENERALS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD,
TO BASICALLY TO BRIBE THEM TO
NOT COMPLAINING ABOUT LOSING
THEIR A-10S.
THEY HAVE DONE THIS IN EVERY
STATE THAT HAS AN A-10 BASE,
PROMISING THEM SOMETHING, AN F-
16 SQUADRON, A KC-46 TANKER
SQUADRON, WHATEVER THE PAY OFF
IS STATE BY STATE.
AND SADLY ITS WORKING.
>> Reporter: STAFF TO SEVERAL
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, WHO WOULD
SPEAK ONLY ON BACKGROUND, TOLD
THE NEWSHOUR THE AIR FORCE HAD
PROMISED TO STATION NEW AIRCRAFT
IN THEIR MEMBER'S STATE TO
REPLACE THE A-10s.
THEY SAID AS A RESULT THEIR
LAWMAKERS WEREN'T COMPLAINING
ABOUT THE A-10S RETIREMENT.
GENERAL SCHWARTZ SAID HE DOUBTS
THE AIR FORCE IS BARTERING LIKE
THAT.
BUT IF THEY ARE:
>> THE EFFORT THAT SECRETARY
DONNELLY AND I MADE RAN INTO
SOME HEADWIND AND THAT'S THE
DECISION OF THE CURRENT SERVING
LEADERSHIP IS THAT THEY WANT TO
CHOOSE TO REDUCE SOME OF THAT
HEADWIND AFTER THAT PAINFUL
EXPERIENCE, I OFFER NO
OBJECTION.
>> Reporter: WHETHER CONGRESS
GOES ALONG WITH THE AIR FORCES
PLANS TO RETIRE THE WARTHOG
REMAINS TO BE DETERMINED.
PIERRE SPREY SAYS GROUND FORCES
NEED THE PROTECTION THE A-10
PROVIDES.
>> WHAT IS AT STAKE IS THE LIVES
OF A LOT OF TROOPS.
TROOPS, IN THE FIELD, WE OWE
THEM THE ABILITY TO PULL THEM
OUT OF TROUBLE.
AND THAT TAKES THE KIND OF
AIRPLANE IM TALKING ABOUT.
GENERAL SCHWARTZ SAYS THAT WONT
CHANGE, EVEN WITHOUT THE A-10.
>> OUR AIRMEN, WHEN THEY HEAR
THIS CALL TROOPS IN CONTACT
NEED HELP NOW, YOU SHOULD HAVE
NO DOUBT THAT AIR FORCE AIRMEN
ARE GOING TO SPEED TO THAT POINT
AND TAKE CARE OF BUSINESS.
>> Reporter: BACK AT MARTIN
STATE AIRPORT, PILOTS AND GROUND
CREW CONTINUE TRAIN ON AND
MAINTAIN THE A-10, THE QUESTION
IS, FOR HOW LONG.
>> Ifill: WE HAVE MORE WITH
"WARTHOG" DESIGNER PIERRE SPREY,
WHO KNOWS THE PLANE INSIDE AND
OUT.
THAT'S ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO
NIGERIA, WHERE ALMOST SIXTY
TEENAGE BOYS WERE BRUTALLY
KILLED EARLY THIS MORNING.
IT'S BELIEVED TO BE THE LATEST
IN A STRING OF ATTACKS BY A RE-
EMERGING EXTREMIST GROUP.
>> Woodruff: ISLAMIST MILITANTS
FROM BOKO HARAM HAVE ATTACKED
NORTHEASTERN NIGERIA WITH A
VENGEANCE THIS MONTH, MURDERING
MORE THAN 300 PEOPLE.
THEY REPORTEDLY STRUCK AGAIN
BEFORE DAWN TODAY AT A BOARDING
SCHOOL IN YOBE STATE, IN A TOWN
NEAR THE CAPITAL CITY.
GUNMEN TORCHED A BOYS'
DORMITORY,  BURNING MANY ALIVE,
AND CUTTINTHE G THROATS OF ANY
WHO TRIED TO ESCAPE.
THAT CAME ONE DAY AFTER
NIGERIA'S PRESIDENT, GOODLUCK
JONATHAN, REJECTED ONE REGIONAL
GOVERNOR'S CRITICISM OF EFFORTS
TO FIGHT THE MILITANTS.
>> Reporter: JONATHAN DECLARED A
STATE OF EMERGENCY LAST MAY, AND
THE MILITARY FLUSHED THE
INSURGENTS FROM CITIES, ONLY TO
SEE THEM REGROUP IN FORESTS AND
CAVES.
BOKO HARAM'S FIGHT FOR AN
ISLAMIC STATE IN NORTHERN
NIGERIA HAS TERRORIZED THE
COUNTRY FOR FOUR AND A HALF
YEARS, LEAVING THOUSANDS DEAD
AND FORCING THOUSANDS MORE TO
LEAVE FOR THEIR OWN SAFETY.
THE VIOLENCE NOW THREATENS THE
STABILITY OF AFRICA'S LARGEST
OIL-UC
THE U.S. IS TRYING TO HELP.
IN OCTOBER, AMERICAN SPECIAL
FORCES HELD A TWO-WEEK TRAINING
SESSION WITH THE NIGERIAN
MILITARY.
>> Woodruff: TO TELL US MORE
ABOUT BOKO HARAM AND WHAT THEIR
RECENT ATTACKS MEAN FOR NIGERIA
AND THE REGION, I'M JOINED BY
PETER PHAM, DIRECTOR OF THE
AFRICA PROGRAM AT THE ATLANTIC
COUNCIL.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
TELL US MORE ABOUT WHO AND WHAT
BOKO HARAM IS.
>> BOKO HARAM STARTED WELL OVER
A DECADE AGO, EENTRCCIC --
>> Woodruff:  MEANING.
>> ISLAM AND LOCAL BELIEFS.
A COUPLE HUNDRED FOLLOWERS.
IN 2009, THE NIGERIAN GOVERNMENT
MOVED AGAINST THEM, KILLED MOST
OF THEM INCLUDING AN EXTRA
JUDICIAL KILLING OF THE LEADER
OF THE GROUP AND THOUGHT IT
ENDED THIS GROUP.
INSTEAD WHAT HAPPENED WAS THE
SURVIVING SEVERAL DOZEN ALIGN
THEMSELVES CLOSELY WITH
AL-QAEDA-LINKED MILITANTS IN
ISLAMIC -- AS WELL AS -- IN
SOMALIA GOT TRAINING CAME BACK
IN 2011 AS SORT OF BOKO HARAM
VERSION 20.0, MORE DEADLY,
INTRODUCING FOR THE FIRST TIME
VEHICLE BOMBS, SUICIDE BOMBINGS
INTO NIGERIA, ATTACKING U.N.
HEADQUARTERS.
AND SOMALI INTERVENTION.
THEY CAME BACK TO NIGERIA WHAT I
CALL 3.0 WITH MORE FIGHTERS AND
VERT LENGTH ETIOLOGY.
>> Woodruff:  WHAT IS THE
ETIOLOGY, WHAT'S THE MISSION.
>> TO OVERTURN THE NIGERIAN
STATE WITH SOME SORT THAT GOES
BEYOND SHI'A LAW WHICH IS MORE
THAN NIGERIAN STATES NOW IMPOSE.
>> Woodruff:  WHY DO YOU SAY
FANTASY.
>> IT'S NOT ROOTED IN ANY
HISTORY.
IT'S CERTAINLY NOT SUPPORTED BY
THE VAST MAJORITY OF NIGERIAN
MUSLIMS.
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHOSE VERY
NAME, THE NAME BOKO HARAM MEANS
LITERALLY BOOK LORDING WESTERN
EDUCATION IS SACRIRELIGIOUS.
THEY REJECT IT WHICH IS WHY
THERE ARE ALL THESE ATTACKS ON
SCHOOLS AND YOUNG PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO LEARN SOME SKILLS.
THIS IS AN AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
THAT WAS ATTACKED TODAY THEY
ATTACKED FOR TWO REASONS.
BOTH TO SHOW THE GOVERNMENT IS
INCAPABLE OF PROTECT CITIZENS
AND SECONDLY TO ATTACK EVEN THE
RUDIMENTS OF WESTERN MODERN
SCIENCE.
>> Woodruff:  THIS BRUTALITY
YOU DESCRIBED IS TYPICAL FOR HOW
THEY SEPARATE.
>> INCREASINGLY SO.
IT DIDN'T START OUT THAT WAY BUT
THEY ARE INCREASINGLY ACTING
THIS WAY.
REGRETLY THE MY  -- THE MY JUNIR
RESPONSE IS VERY BRUTAL IN ITS
OWN AND THERE ARE HUMAN RIGHTS
CONCERNS BEEN RAISED BY HUMAN
RIGHTS GROUPS AS WELL AS OUR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
>> Woodruff:  WHAT ABOUT
SECURITY.
WHAT KIND OF EFFORTS ARE UNDER
WAY TO PROTECT AGAINST THE
ATTACKS.
AND WHERE ARE THEY OPERATING
INSIDE NIGERIA.
>> THEY'RE OPERATING PRIMARILY
IN THE NORTHERN PART OF THE
COUNTRY AND SPECIFICALLY IN THE
NORTH EASTERN PART ALONG THE
BORDERS WITH -- AND CAMEROON.
THE REFUGE GO ACROSS THE
BORDERS.
NIGERIA HAS THROWN ITS MILITARY
AGAINST THEM BUT TO FIGHT THIS
GROUP, IT'S A COUNTERINSURGENCY.
THEY NEED TO SECURE PEOPLE.
THEY NEED TO PROVIDE SECURITY
FOR ORDINARY NIGERIANS, WIN
HEARTS AND MINDS.
RIGHT NOW THEY ARE ONLY PURSUING
A MILITARY STRATEGY.
>> Woodruff:  WHAT ABOUT THE
POPULATION OF THE COUNTRY.
WHAT'S THEIR VIEW.
ARE THEY COMPLETELY AGAINST WHAT
THEY'RE DOING, DO THEY HAVE
SYMPATHY AMONG THE PEOPLE.
>> WELL, THE PEOPLE IN THE NORTH
PART OF NIGERIA WHICH IS THE
AUDIENCE THAT WE'RE ADDRESSING
ARE CERTAINLY MARGINAL
ECONOMICALLY AND POLITICALLY.
THEY HAVE SOME LEGITIMATE
GRIEVES BUT NOT REPRESENTED BY
THIS EXTREMIST GROUP.
A HAND FIST OF GOVERNMENT
RESPONSE RELYING ONLY ON BRUTE
FORCE THAT THIS PLACES MORE
PEOPLE DOESN'T WIN THE
GOVERNMENT ANY APPLAUSE OR ANY
SUPPORT EITHER.
SO MANY WAYS THE POOR PEOPLE OF
NIGERIA ARE CAUGHT BETWEEN THESE
EXTREMISTS THAT DON'T REPRESENT
TH AEMND A GOVERNMENT THAT'S NOT
RESPONDING TO THEIR NEEDS FOR
SECURITY IN A HOLISTIC FASHION.
SO THEY'RE REALLY IN A DIFFICULT
PLACE.
>> Woodruff:  I THINK WE
REPORTED, I KNOW I SAW A REPORT
THAT SAID THAT SECURITY FORCES
AT THIS PARTICULAR SCHOOL WHERE
THE ATTACK TOOK PLACE YESTERDAY
WERE BELIEVED TO HAVE LEFT
BEFORE THE ATTACK HAPPENED.
I MEAN, IS THIS A MATTER HOW FAR
THERE'S SOME SORT OF INSIDE
INFORMATION BEING PASSED AROUND.
>> THERE'S SOME ALLEGATIONS.
IN FACT, NIGERIA'S PRESIDENT
GOODLUCK JONATHAN HAS ACCUSED
EVEN MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT OF
INCLUDING WITH BOKO HARAM.
HE'S FACING ELECTION AND THERE
ARE ALLEGATIONS OF HIS
POLITICIZING A FIGHT AGAINST
THIS GROUP OR PEOPLE USING THIS
GROUP TO MAKE THEM LOOK WEEK.
THAT ENTERS THE PICTURE.
IT'S A COMPLICATED PICTURE.
IT REQUIRES A GREAT DEAL OF
NUANCE AND A BROAD-BASED
STRATEGY THAT SO FAR I DON'T SEE
ANY EVIDENCE OF.
>> Woodruff:  WE ALSO REPORTED
A MOMENT AGO THAT U.S. SPECIAL
FORCES TRAINI.NG
DOES THAT TRAINING HAVE ANYTHING
TO DO WITH THE BOKO HARAM
PROBLEM.
>> WELL I THINK IT HELPS WITH
THE NIGERIANS.
THE NIGERIANS HAVE BEEN
RESPONDING TO THIS LARGELY AS A
HARD MILITARY, A CONNTIOVENAL
GOING IN WITH TANKS, ARMORED
PERSONNEL VEHICLES.
AND SOME OF THE LESSONS U.S.
FORCES KNOW OF AFGHANISTAN AND
IRAQ THAT YOU HAVE TO SECURE THE
POPULATION, WORK WITH LOCAL
LEADERS.
I IMAGINE WHAT THEY'RE TRYING TO
IMPART.
WHETHER IT TAKES, THAT'S A WHOLE
OTHER STORY.
AT LEAST THEY'RE TRYING TO PASS
ON THE BEST PRACTICES OR TO THE
NIGERIANS AND HOPEFULLY THEY
PICK UP ON THAT.
>> Woodruff:  THE QUESTION ONE
HAS, WE KNOW NIGERIA IS NOT THE
POOREST COUNTRY.
THEY HAVE REVENUES FROM OIL.
WHY AREN'T THEY ABLE TO PUT
TOGETHER A BETTER SECURITY FORCE
OR APPROACH.
>> IT'S CERTAINLY NOT FOR LACK
OF RESOURCES AS YOU POINT OUT,
BUT JUST A WEEK AGO, NIGERIA'S
WELL RESPECTED CENTRAL BANK
GOVERNOR WAS SUSPENDED BY THE
PRESIDENT BECAUSE HE HAD THE
AUDACITY TO POINT OUT THERE ARE
AT LEAST $20 BILLION IN OIL
REVENUES THAT HAD GONE MISSING
IN THE LAST FEW YEARS.
AND SO FOR HIS TROUBLE, HE WAS
SUSPENDED FROM HIS JOB.
SO THERE'S CERTAINLY CORRUPTION.
THERE'S A LACK OF POLITICAL WILL
AND THOSE ARE THE KEY ELEMENTS
THAT NEED TO BE BROUGHT UP.
IT'S NOT A MILITARY ANSWER.
>> Woodruff:  SO FINALLY,
PETER PHAM, HOW MUCH IS THE
POPULATION, HOW MUCH SHOULD THEY
BE FEARING WHAT BOKO HARAM DOES
IN THE WEEKS AND MONTHS TO COME.
>> WELL, UNFORTUNATELY WITH THE
POLITICIZED CLIMATE THE LEAD UP
TO ELECTION, ONE EXPECTS BOTH
MORE MILITARY ACTION ON THE PART
OF THE GOVERNMENT AND INCREASED
ACTIVE THITY ON THE PART OF BOKO
HARAM TO MAKE THE GOVERNMENT
LOOK WK.EA
SO THE PEOPLE ARE CAUGHT IN
BETWEEN THAT.
UNFORTUNATELY IT'S GOING TO BE A
DIFFICULT TIME FOR THE PEOPLE OF
NIGERIA FOR THE NEXT FEW MONTHS.
>> Woodruff:  TOUGH.
PETER PHAM, THE ATLANTA COUNCIL,
WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: WE HAVE MORE ON THE
EXTREMIST GROUP BOKO HARAM, WHO
THEY ARE AND WHAT THEY BELIEVE.
READ A COUNCIL OF FOREIGN
RELATIONS BACKGROUNDER, ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO THE DOMESTIC
FRONT, AND A BIPARTISAN EFFORT
TO HELP UNDOCUMENTED YOUNG
PEOPLE ATTEND COLLEGE.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR
CONVERSATION.
>> Brown:  EVERY YEAR SOME
65,000 STUDENTS WHO ENTERED THE
COUNTRY ILLEGALLY AS CHILDREN
GRADUATE FROM U.S. HIGH SCHOOLS.
WHILE 17 STATES NOW ALLOW THESE
STUDENTS KNOWN AS DREAMERS TO
PAY IN STATE TUITION AT PUBLIC
HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS,
THEY ARE NOT ELIGIBLE FOR
FEDERAL FINANCIAL AID LIKE PEL
GRANTS OR LOW INTEREST
GOVERNMENT LOANS.
NOW WITH THE PROSPECT FOR
IMMIGRATION REFORM STALLED IF
NOT DEAD ON CAPITOL HILL THE
PRIVATE SECTOR TO HELP THESE
STUDENTS IS UNDER WAY.
BY WASHINGTON POST OWNER
DOCUMENTED GRAHAM AND OUR TWO
GUESSES, CARLOS GUTIERREZ, HE
NOW CHAIRDZ THE POLITICAL ACTION
GROUPS REPUBLICANS FOR
IMCONVERSATION REFORM.
AND HENRY MUNOZ WHO SERVES AS --
WHAT IS THE IDEA BEHIND THIS.
WHAT IS THE PROBLEM YOU'RE
ADDRESSING.
>> WELL IT'S AS YOU SAID, KIDS
WHO CAME TO THIS COUNTRY, NO
FAULT OF THEIR OWN UNDOCUMENTED
AND THEY FIND OUT VERY OFTEN
WHEN THEY GRADUATE HIGH SCHOOL
THAT THEY CAN'T KEEP GOING.
THAT THEY'RE NOT IN THE COUNTRY
LEGALLY.
SO THAT'S IT.
THEIR CAREER HAS STALLED SO WHAT
WE'RE DOING IS PROVIDING THEM
THE OPPORTUNITY TO KEEP STUDYING
AS THEY WANT TO DO THROUGH THESE
SCHOLARSHIPS.
>> Brown:  HOW IS IT SUPPOSED
TO WORK.
IS IT RELATIVELY LIMITED IN
SCOPE IN TERMS OF NUMBERS YOU'RE
GOING TO REACH AND THE COLLEGES
THAT ARE PARTICIPATING.
>> WELL IT STARTED OUT OF A
CONVERSATION A YEAR AGO REALLY
WITH THE DREAMER COMMUNITY.
IN MANY WAYS IT'S A SCHOLARSHIP
INITIATIVE THAT WAS DESIGNED BY
DREAMERS FOR DREAMERS.
WE BEGAN BY FOCUSING ON
COMMUNITIES, THE COMMUNITY OF
WASHINGTON D.C., OF MIAMI,
COLLEGES IN TEXAS FOR EXAMPLE TO
TRY TO GET AT COMMUNITY BASE
RESPONSE TO THE FACT THAT THESE
YOUNG PEOPLE DON'T HAVE ACCESS
TO PROGRAMS.
SO IN MANY WAYS, IT'S A MODEST
YET NATIONAL TYPE OF PROGRAM TO
BEGIN TO PROVIDE PRIVATE
PROGRA DREAMERSBROWN.
>> IMMIGRATION REFORM IS VERY
POLITICAL AND PARTISAN.
YOU SIT HERE AS A DEMOCRAT.
IS THERE A LARGER MESSAGE THAT
THAT CONVEYS AS WELL.
>> IT'S THE WAY THE COUNTRY
SHOULD BE THINKING ABOUT IT AND
THE WAY CONGRESS SHOULD BE
THINKING ABOUT IT.
THE DIVIDE BETWEEN THE TWO
PARTIES TODAY IS JUST ABSOLUTELY
WIDER THAN I HAVE EVER SEEN IT.
>> Brown:  DO YOU FEEL ON
IMMIGRATION IN PARTICULAR.
>> I THINK ON A LOT OF THINGS.
I THINK THE EXTREMES ARE
DOMINATING.
IMMIGRATION REFORM IS GOOD FOR
OUR ECONOMY, IT'S GOOD FOR OUR
SOCIETY.
WE CAN'T GROW WITHOUT
IMMIGRATION.
WE JUST HAVE TO FACE UP TO THAT.
EVEN THE SENATE BILL RECOGNIZES
THAT.
THERE ARE 110,000 AGRICULTURAL
WORKERS.
OUR COUNTRY NEEDS A MILLION.
SO WE NEED TO EMBRACE THE FACT
THAT WE HAVE TO HAVE IMMIGRATION
IN ORDER TO GROW.
>> Brown:  ARE YOU GETTINGONOMY.
MUCH PUSH BACK FOR  THIS EFFORT,
CRITICISM FROM FELLOW
REPUBLICANS.
>> I HAVEN'T HEARD OF IT.
THE PEOPLE WITH WHOM I SPEAK,
BUSINESS PEOPLE ARE TERRIBLY
FRUSTRATED THAT MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE
DON'T GET IT.
THEY DON'T GET THAT THIS IS AN
ECONOMIC ISSUE THAT WE SHOULD BE
EMBRACING THIS AND THAT WE
SHOULD BE A PARTY OF IMMIGRATION
AS A PARTY OF GROWTH AND
PROSPERITY.
>> Brown:  OF COURSE HENRY
MUNOZ NOTHING SEEMS TO BE
HAPPENING POLITICALLY.
IS THIS EFFORT KIND OF
SUBSTITUTE OR WHERE DO YOU SEE
THE POLITICS OF IT.
>> IT'S A RECOGNITION THAT EVEN
WITHOUT A PIECE OF LEGISLATION
TO ADDRESS, IMMIGRATION REFORM.
CAN HAVE AN IMPACT ON PEOPLE'S
LIVES.
PEOPLE FORGET THE DREAMERS ARE
OUR NEIGHBORS.
THEY'RE THE PEOPLE WE PASS WHEN
WE'RE WALKING DOWN THE STREET.
THERE'S HALF A MILLION YOUNG
PEOPLE WHO HAVE FILED FOR
DOCUMENTS ARE CAPABLE OF
ACTIVATING THESE SCHOLARSHIPS.
THE MORE YOU INVEST IN AN
INDIVIDUAL THE MORE YOU
REINFORCE THE VALUE OF THE
AMERICAN DREAM.
THE MORE POWER THAT YOU GIVE TO
PEOPLE.
HOPEFULLY WILL HAVE AN IMPACT ON
THE CONVERSATION HAPPENING IN
CONGRESS.
>> Brown:  WHERE IS THE MONEY
COMING FROM.
I SEE THERE ARE FOUNDATIONS,
FROM YOURSELVES AND INDIVIDUALS.
>> FOUNDATION MONEY,
INDIVIDUALS.
HENRY WAS TALKING A LITTLE WHILE
AGO ABOUT A GRASSROOTS EFFORT TO
ALLOW PEOPLE TO CONTRIBUTE $5,
$10.
WE WANT TO SHOW THERE ARE A LOT
OF PEOPLE IN THE COUNTRY WHO ARE
IN FAVOR OF THIS.
WHAT WORRIES ME IS HOW HISTORY
WILL JUDGE US DEPENDING ON HOW
WE TREAT THESE KIDS.
AND IT WILL BE A REAL SHAME TO
JUST CUT OFF THEIR PROGRESS.
>> Brown:  THIS IS PERSONAL
FOR BOTH OF YOU, RIGHT.
IS THAT RIGHT.
>> YES.
IT'S PERSONAL BUT THIS ALSO,
THERE'S POLICY HERE.
I'M AN IMMIGRANT MYSELF AND I'VE
WORKED IN MEXICO.
I'VE WORKED THROUGHOUT LATIN
AMERICA.
I KNOW HOW HARD THESE PEOPLE
WORK.
I KNOW HOW HARD THEY ARE
WORKING.
I KNOW HOW MUCH THEY DREAM.
I KNOW HOW MUCH THEY WANT TO
ACHIEVE SOMETHING.
BUT I STEP BACK AS A U.S.
CITIZEN AND I REALIZE THAT THIS
IS GOOD POLICY FOR OUR COUNTRY.
AND FOR OUR ECONOMY.
>> Brown:  NOT EVERYONE AGREES
STILL, RIGHT.
>> I COME FROM PHOENIX  -- TEXAS
AND I SEE IT EVERY DAY.
EVERY PLACE I TRAVEL IN THE
COUNTRY I SEE DREAMERS AND I
UNDERSTAND THE VALUE OF THE
AMERICAN DREAM.
IN MANY WAYS, THIS IS A PROCESS,
A MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE TO EDUCATE
OUR COUNTRY ABOUT THE ECONOMIC
BENEFITS AND THE UNDENIABLE FACT
THAT THE DEMOGRAPHICS IN THIS
COUNTRY ARE SHIFTING.
AND WE REALLY NEED TO MAKE SURE
THAT THE FUTURE OF OUR ECONOMY
IS SOLIDIFIED AND ONE OF THE
WAYS TO DO THAT IS TO MAKE SURE
WE HAVE PEOPLE WHO ARE EDUCATED
AND CAN BE A PART OF THAT
ECONOMIC FUTURE.
>> Brown:  WHAT'S THE GOAL OR
HOPE IMMEDIATELY.
HOW MANY PEOPLE DO YOU THINK YOU
CAN REACH.
>> INTERESTING, THE DREAM DOT
U.S. WAS ESTABLISHED AROUND A
DECADE OF OPPORTUNITY.
EDUCATING AT LEAST 2000 DREAMERS
OVER TEN YEARS THAT'S GOT THE
SUPPORT FROM EVERYONE FROM
BLOOMBERG, PHILANTHROPIES TO THE
GATES FOUNDATION AND AS CARLOS
MENTIONED, MANY PEOPLE WHO ARE
ONLY CAPABLE OF GIVING $5 AND
$10 BY GOING ON-LINE TO THE
DREAM DOT U.S.
>> Brown:  I WANT TO ASK YOU
LASTLY BECAUSE THERE IS SO MUCH
TALK AND CONCERN ABOUT THE ROLE
OF MONEY IN POLITICS THESE DAYS.
AND THE ROLE OF WEALTHY PEOPLE
AND FOUNDATIONS PUTTING MONEY
INTO PARTICULAR CAUSES.
THIS IS A CAUSE.
YOU'RE MEN OF MEANS AND YOU'RE
RETURNING TO OTHERS.
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO PEOPLE WHO
WOULD BE WILLING IN SOME WAYS
YOU'RE BUYING YOUR WAY INTO WHAT
IS A VERY POLITICAL CAUSE.
>> WELL YOU KNOW, THIS IS NOT A
SUPER PAC DESIGNED TO ELECT THAN
OFFICIAL.
THIS IS A PRIVATE EFFORT
DESIGNED TO HELP KIDS WHO NEED
HELP.
AND I THINK IT'S A VERY NOBLE
CAUSE.
TALKING ABOUT THE PERSONAL SIDE,
WHEN I CAME TO THIS COUNTRY, I
FELT LIKE PEOPLE WELCOMED ME.
THESE KIDS DON'T FEEL WELCOMED
AND THAT'S NOT GOOD FOR OUR
SOCIETY.
IT'S NOT GOOD FOR THEM.
WE SHOULD BE SAYING COME ON IN
AND BE SUCCESSFUL.
>> Brown:  WHAT'S YOUR
RESPONSE.
>> MY FATHER USED TO TELL ME NO
PESO, NO SAY-SO.
WHAT BETTER PLACE TO INVEST YOUR
MONEY THAN IN THE FUTURE OF OUR
COUNTRY AND SPECIFICALLY WITH
THIS VERY HIGHLY MOTIVATED
GENERATION OF YOUNG PEOPLE WHO
WANT ACCESS TO THE AMERICAN
DREAM.
AND I THINK IT'S TIME THAT THE
LATINO COMMUNITY STEP UP AND
INVOLVE ITSELF AROUND EFFORTS
LIKE THIS.
I FEEL GOOD ABOUT IT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
HENRY MUNOZ, CARLOS GUTIERREZ,
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
THE SECRETS OF THE VATICAN, AND
THE RECENT SCANDALS THAT HAVE
ROCKED THE PAPACY.
THAT'S THE SUBJECT OF TONIGHT'S
EPISODE OF "FRONTLINE."
IT EXPLORES, AMONG OTHER THINGS,
STORIES OF VICTIMS OF CHILDHOOD
SEXUAL ABUSE BY CLERGY.
A LEAK OF PRIVATE PAPAL
DOCUMENTS TO THE PRESS AND
ALLEGATIONS OF A CLANDESTINE
SEXUAL SUB-CULTURE WITHIN THE
HOLY SEE.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT, LOOKING AT
THE ITALIAN GOVERNMENT'S INQUIRY
INTO FINANCIAL PRACTICES AT THE
VATICAN BANK.
>> THE VATICAN IS A WORLD ON ITS
OWN, AN INDEPENDENT STATE.
AND THIS IS THE GUARDED FRONTIER
THAT SEPARATES IT FROM ITALY.
WHOSE AUTHORITIES HAVE NO POWERS
HERE.
>> THE VATICAN IS THE LAST
ABSOLUTE MONARCHY IN THE WORLD
TODAY.
THE POPE WHEN HE'S ELECTED IS
ANSWERABLE TO NO HUMAN POWER.
HE HAS ABSOLUTE AUTHORITY OVER
THE ENTIRE ROMAN CATHOLIC
CHURCH, DIRECTOR AUTHORITY THAT
REACHES NOW TO INDIVIDUAL
MEMBERS.
HE IS THE SUPREME JUDGE, THE
SUPREME  LEGISLATURE AND
DIRECTOR.
>> HE NEEDED HELP AND TURNED TO
CARDINAL.
IN CHARGE OF THE VATICAN'S
GOVERNMENT.
>> THE VATICAN CURIA WHICH IS
THE ADMINISTRATIVE BODY OF THE
WORLDWIDE CHURCH IS A COLLECTION
OF SMALL THIEFDOMS OF
INDIVIDUALS VYING AGAINST ONE
ANOTHER.
>> AND IT IS THE CURIA THAT RUNS
THE CITY STATE WITH ITS OWN
LOWELL SYSTEM, TV CHANNEL AND
RADIO STATION AND NEWSPAPER.
IT EVEN HAS ITS OWN BANK THE
INSTITUTE OF RELIGIOUS WORKS
HOUSED IN A MEDIEVAL TOWER.
>> THE BANK OF ITALY, THE
HIGHEST AUTHORITY IN OUR BANKING
SYSTEM HAS DESCRIBED THE VATICAN
BANK AS A FALLING BANK ON OUR
SOIL.
WE SEE THE BIG WALLS OF THE
VATICAN AS A NATIONAL BORDER.
WE CANNOT INTERVENE THE VATICAN.
>> HE'S A POWERFUL FIGURE IN
ITALY.
HE PROSECUTES THE MOST DIFFICULT
CASES, THEAF
POLITICIANS AND MOST RECENTLY
THE VATICAN BANK, WHICH HAS A
LONG AND DARK REPUTATION FOR
FINANCIAL CORRUPTION.
>> POLITICIANS, BUSINESSMEN WERE
USING THE VATICAN BANK AS AN
OFFSHORE, TO HIDE THEIR MONEY OR
MONEY LAUNDER IF YOU WILL OR NOT
PAY TAXES.
>> FOR YEARS THE ITALIAN
AUTHORITIES COULD DO NOTHING.
BUT ONE WHEN TOUGH BANKING
REGULATIONS WERE IMPOSED ACROSS
EUROPE IN THE WAKE OF THE
FINANCIAL CRISES, ONLY THE
VATICAN BANK RESISTED.
SO THE ITALIAN FINANCE POLICE
PUT THE BANK UNDER CLOSE
SURVEILLANCE, USING ALL THE
TOOLS AT THEIR DISPOSAL.
THEY MONITORED TRANSACTIONS IN
AND OUT OF THE VATICAN BANK.
THEY MADE THEIR FIRST BREAK
THROUGH IN THE SUMMER OF 2010.
>> IN THAT CASE, IT HAPPENED
THAT AN ITALIAN BANK RECEIVED A
REQUEST FROM THE VATICAN BANK TO
TRANSFER 23 MILLION EUROS.
THE BANK OF ITALY REQUESTED
DETAILS FOR BOTH PAYEE AND
RECIPIENT IN THE TRANSACTION AND
THE REASON FOR THE TRANSFER.
THE VATICAN BANK FAILED TO
PROVIDE ADEQUATE INFORMATION SO
THE BANK OF ITALY DECIDED TO
FREEZE THAT MONEY.
THE WHOLE EUROPEAN BANKING
COMMUNITY WAS UP ARMS.
THE ACCOUNT HOLDERS THAT
INCLUDED THE IRANIAN AND IRAQI
EMBASSIES APPEARS THE MONEY
WOULD BE USED FOR LAUNDERING.
ONE BANK AFTER ANOTHER REFUSED
TO DO BUSINESS WITH THE VATICAN
BANK UNTIL IT CLEANED UP ITS
ACT.
>> Woodruff: YESTERDAY, POPE
FRANCIS ANNOUNCED THE CREATION
OF A NEW OVERSIGHT BODY TO
MONITOR THE VATICAN'S FINANCIAL
ACTIVITIES.
FRONTLINE'S "SECRETS OF THE
VATICAN" AIRS TONIGHT, AT A
SPECIAL TIME OF 9:00 P.M., ON
MOST P.B.S. STATIONS.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
TOLD STATE ATTORNEYS GENERAL
THEY'RE UNDER NO OBLIGATION TO
DEFEND BANS ON GAY MARRIAGE.
UKRAINE'S NEW LEADERS RAISED
GROWING CONCERN THAT EASTERN
PARTS OF THE COUNTRY, ESPECIALLY
CRIMEA, MIGHT SPLIT OFF AND JOIN
RUSSIA.
AND ISLAMIST INSURGENTS IN
NIGERIA SLAUGHTERED AT LEAST 59
STUDENTS AT A GOVERNMENT SCHOOL,
IN THE LATEST OF A SERIES OF
BRUTAL ATTACKS.
>> Woodruff: ON THE HEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, THE NATION'S
AILING HONEY BEE POPULATION WILL
BE GETTING A MUCH-NEEDED BOOST
FROM THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
AGRICULTURE.
THE AGENCY WILL PROVIDE AID TO
FARMERS WHO RELY ON THE INSECTS
TO POLLINATE THEIR FRUITS AND
VEGETABLES.
READ THAT STORY ON THE RUNDOWN.
AND TO GET READY FOR SUNDAY'S
OSCAR CEREMONY, WE CONTINUE OUR
LOOK AT THE NOMINATED
DOCUMENTARIES.
TODAY: YOU KNOW THEIR VOICES,
BUT NEVER HEARD OF THEIR NAMES.
THEY'RE THE BACKUP SINGERS WHOSE
PITCH-PERFECT VOCALS MADE AN
INDELIBLE MARK ON THE HITS.
LISTEN TO JEFF'S CONVERSATION
WITH "TWENTY FEET FROM STARDOM"
DIRECTOR MORGAN NEVILLE, ON ART
BEAT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, THE LATEST FROM
UKRAINE, AS THEY HUNT FOR THEIR
OUSTED PRESIDENT AND FORM AN
INTERIM GOVERNMENT.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.